you're watching maverick media educate
organize act
you
[Music]
how many times do you think that the US
government or the CIA has been involved
in over during countries that were in
support of us putting in have a
government's puppet leaders or really
supporting dictatorships well the United
States
I know mostly going back to World War
two a manager to happen before that but
since the since the Central Intelligence
Agency was founded in 47 this has been a
regular part of u.s. foreign policy a
covert part and most often but something
that that American leaders have liked
that if the if compliant leaders can be
put in power in different countries
that's what the United States tries to
do and there may be for geopolitical
reasons and maybe for economic reasons
and sometimes those people are very have
been very bad people the for instance in
Guatemala the the United States also
impacted 54 by the same time as the
Iranian operation overthrew the arbenz
government another elected government
and began a pattern of having military
dictators in control in Guatemala and
increasingly it became bloodier and
bloodier and bloodier ultimately a
couple hundred thousand Guatemalans were
put to death in this effort to keep
these pro US governments in power here
we've got so bad under under under
Reagan that the the bloodshed became was
was just extraordinary the there was a
leader to power named Rios Montt
who was supposedly a fundamentalist
Christian and he unleashed
is scorched-earth policy in the
highlands and Reagan covered up for him
Reagan said that he that ríos Montt was
getting a bum rap when human rights
group said that he was engaged in these
massed mass exterminations campaigns
ultimately after the by the time we get
to the late 90s and some of the
documents were released by the Clinton
administration they were provided to a
Truth Commission in Guatemala which went
through this material and released it to
the public and showing that that that
genocide was being committed against
Indian tribes in the highlands of
Guatemala and the US was complicit and
this is not some ancient thing or some
distant thing like the nineteen century
this was stuff that was a kid just
occurred essentially a decade or so
earlier yet it received almost no
attention in the American press it was a
one-day story it appeared in the New
York Times and The Washington Post and
and then disappeared it was not the kind
of thing that the thinking was in the I
think and probably the media was this is
not the kind of thing Americans want to
hear about themselves of their country
so it was it was it became heard out
they went down the memory hole very
quickly you said something earlier that
the neocons that had formed way back was
at the 1970s and we're seeing a real
insolence by that sector of our
government now on our whole country and
our whole foreign policy aren't we well
the neoconservatives were a movement
that came that in some cases sprung from
the american left there was the Trotsky
I'd connection there was there was these
bitter splits in the American left going
back a number of decades and the
neo-cons sort of took the very worst
aspects of some of the of the leftist
infighting but they were extremely
they're well educated
it will educated and they have they they
are well-connected and they proceeded to
engage in efforts to control information
the neo cons understood the power of
information or often their case
disinformation they had a phrase they
like to use when they were sort of
moving into positions of power in under
Reagan in the 1980
called perception management and they
understood that they could manage the
perceptions of the American people they
could get the American people to do
pretty much what they wanted in the main
way they would do that is the scare of
American people they would exaggerate
threats they would be back in the 70s
back at the time of Team B where Paul
Wolfowitz was working with his old cold
warriors examining the power of the
Soviet Union the idea was to make their
Soviet Union much more scary much much
more dangerous than it actually was they
use the same tactics many of them many
of neo-cons moved over to Central
America under Reagan because Reagan did
not reduce them much say in the Middle
East Middle East was considered places
for more adult people like James Baker
Philip Habib
but the neo-cons were allowed to cut
their teeth if you will on Central
America and you had people like Elliott
Abrams who was put in his Assistant
Secretary of State Robert Kagan was was
put into the office of public diplomacy
for Central America he had so these key
figures were getting learning how to
play these games and part of what they
did was how do you make Central America
something that the American people will
want to side with these repressive
policies in in countries controlled by
right-wing dictators like Guatemala and
how do you get them scared of the
Sandinistas in Nicaragua enough to
support the Contras so they develop
themes they had one called the feet
people and it was that if we don't go in
there and and and and get rid of the
Sandinistas there will be feet people
flowing into the United States and
they'll be flooding Texas and and we
don't want that to happen these you know
Central Americans being allowed to come
up ironically none it was it was a
defensive that kind of theme but it was
also wrong I mean the the greatest
number of feet people or immigrants
people refugees fleeing the violence
were fleeing from El Salvador and
Guatemala and places where the US backed
governments were carrying out these
atrocities and they were fleeing the
violence and that didn't happen in
Nicaragua for quite a while later on
when the Contra war be was being
increased you saw more of that but
people you know people are like most
people they will flee violence and they
will
to save themselves and their families so
but what so in other words the United
States was actually creating the problem
with the neo-con proclaiming would
result if the United States didn't
intervene militarily and the way we were
where the Reagan administration was in
Central America so you had these there
was always this idea can you scare the
American people enough and that's what
the neo-cons mastered and when they came
back to power under george w bush and
they were given control the Middle East
Elliott Abrams became a National
Security Council official in charge of
the Middle East and so we see the same
games that were replayed now we have to
show how scary is Iraq or accident
attacked the United States there was one
of my favorite ones they used was that
Saddam had these little basically model
planes that remote control planes and
Tom somehow that those planes are
supposed to fly over to the United
States and spray us with biological
weapons it made no sense but but the
kind of scary tactic they were using
didn't we have to it was it played on a
psychological level and obviously they
the biggest thing they did was to play
up the the false stories about WMD and
the false stories about ties to al-qaeda
and the false stories about Saddam being
involved in 9/11 cetera et cetera so you
had this this manipulation of
information again and Americans to race
and bought it because that's what they
heard and if they weren't hearing from
the mainstream press and they worked
hearing it a good deal from the
mainstream press New York Times for
instance the Washington Post for both
deep into putting out this mound of
nonsense they would hear from the
right-wing press they hear on the talk
radio shows so Americans were
essentially being propagandized about
with you spheres and these false dangers
and just like the neo cons understood
you control the perceptions of the
American people you manage those you can
manage the American people and terrorism
is the biggest fear driving Americans
now in our short I mean and you know
terrorism obviously was a factor going
back and it wasn't new after 9/11 Reagan
had declared in 1980 and 81 that
terrorism would replace human rights as
as a leading interest of the United
States government but and much of what
happened in the 1980s was around
terrorism they can the summer with some
of the some of the guerrilla warfare in
Central America the from the left side
was denounced as terrorism obviously
there were militant Arab groups
operating in the Middle East that were
involved in terrorism and that was a
factor but the 9/11 attacks with the
3,000 dead and the dramatic facts that
led that certainly made the fear is much
more real for the American people and
and not only played on their fears but
their sense of revenge and then you
simply had to give targets for that
revenge
initially the targets were al Qaeda
which made some sense that they were
involved in carrying out the attacks and
in Afghanistan where they were being
harbored supposedly but then it had to
spread because the neocons real target
was Iraq and ultimately Iran and Syria
those were those were at the top of the
real list of countries to have regime
change and those were the countries that
were considered the biggest threats to
Israel and the neo-cons wanted to make
sure those countries were reported in
their ability to project any kinds of
power and the real goal was then to get
- to wipe out the supporters of Hamas
and Hezbollah the front line groups that
Israel was concerned about and if you
took down Iraq if you took down Syria
and Iran that supposedly would force the
Palestinians to accept whatever terms
the Israelis wanted to dictate and that
was the that was the behind-the-scenes
thinking of the neocons and on how they
were going to make this all work would
you say there are cases in the okra no I
would say Robert Gates is a mix of
things there may be some neocon in there
Robert Gates was an important figure in
all this because he was this young
aspiring CIA analyst supposedly but more
of a politician he worked at the
National Security Council staff and
during that late 70s period so so Robert
Gates
then
he's one of the guys implicated in the
October Surprise dealings
according to witnesses and even the
Russian report that was delivered to the
house in in early 93 gates was it was
was involved in these meetings with the
Iranians on behalf of the Reagan
campaign
so what wants to believe that or not and
this obviously been denied but there's
evidence to support it's sort of that
gray area but gates certainly his career
took off like a meteor after after
Reagan came in and Bill Casey became
Director of Central Intelligence Gates's
big role though was he was he was more
of a careerist opportunist he was put in
charge of the of the analytical division
and the analytical divisions was very
important at CIA because it had this
history of telling at best it could the
policy maker is what the facts were
again information is crucial to neocon
how you control that so so Gates's job
was essentially to break the
independence of the analytical division
to replace it with people who would give
Reagan and later the Bush's the
intelligence they wanted and in
Washington of a leaked CIA report and
it's very powerful in terms of
information so if you can control make
sure that nothing negative comes out you
don't want and maybe make sure that
something positive that you do want for
instance you know take us to the 2002
nie on Iraq if you make sure that one
says all the good stuff yes the DOM is
up to his eyeballs and wmb etc that's a
very powerful tool when if you can get
that document so it was important to
control the CIA analyst and so many of
the the traditional honest analysts were
purged or pushed aside during this
period of the 1980s essentially the
independence of the CIA's analytical
division was broken gates was the guy
who broke it and this became an issue
for him when he was nominated by Bush
the first time in 91 to be CIA director
in a remarkable development many of
these old analysts went before the
Senate Intelligence Committee and said
that Gates had politicized the
intelligence product
and that caused and despite that because
david boren senator born was a friend of
gates he was the Democratic chairman of
the committee and his in his top aide by
the way his senior aide handling the
investigation was kind of George Tennant
and they basically greased the skids to
get gates through as CIA director so he
was made director in 91 and when
remained there until the end of Bush's
presidency Clinton Clinton did not renew
he was then there he was replace
although Clinton's people weren't much
better the engagement wanted off in kind
of a without much work to do he sort of
rose memoirs and then he and then the
elder Bush got him a job at in Texas as
a college president and there he sort of
was stuck until Bush he was he was
brought on to the to the Iran lead sorry
the Iraq study group and Bush reached
out to him the younger Bush reached out
to him in 2006 to replace Rumsfeld and
people misinterpreted what happened
there the general consensus even among
Democrats was the gates represented the
the either the side that wanted to bring
the Iraq war to an end and that Rome
cell was a sort of crazy cowboy the
truth is the opposite
Rumsfeld wanted to minimize the US
military occupation of Iraq he wanted to
get the u.s. out he was talking about it
withdrawal plan in 2007 he sent a memo
to Bush to this effect Bush immediately
fired him and he reached out to gates
because Gates was willing to play ball
and keep the keep the war going so
basically everyone got it wrong at that
time the interpretation was the opposite
of the truth and he and Gates was
welcomed before the the the house the
Senate Armed Services Committee people
like Senator Clinton praised him there
was his thought that he was going to
bring reason to the Bush administration
in term instead he was be became sort of
a great promoter of the surge and of an
escalation of the war in Iraq not a
de-escalation and what was he saying
that where we are right now
we started viola we're going into
Afghanistan I were increasing our troop
level in Afghanistan was godly crystal
we've got a gate lishchyna to intensify
the situation there
how would you characterize this it
wouldn't be fair to say for example that
the United States has become an empire
well I mean it's no question that the
United States has many of the trappings
of an empire I mean they're US bases all
over the world
u.s. military intervenes more than any
other military in the world the u.s. can
because they can invade countries and in
defiance of the UN in defiance of the
Nuremberg principles and Appliance of
the Geneva Conventions the u.s. talks
about its exceptionalism it basically
means that it can do what it wants
because it's supposedly so morally
superior to everybody else that's
something that's almost stated by it by
the people who promote this that the US
should intervene in all these countries
so I think to suggest it's an empire is
not showing off the mark
the bigger problem I think though is
that it's very difficult for politicians
at this point to rein it in and even if
you wanted to even a say President Obama
really is uncomfortable with continuing
some of these Bush policies and I think
one could argue that he should have done
a lot more to both both hold the bush
people accountable for their crimes of
torture and and war crimes than he has
he hasn't done anything in fact he wants
to look forward not backward and you
could say that he probably maybe should
have been more aggressive in ending the
Iraq war he's sort of put that on a
continuing basis to faze us out and
Afghanistan is escalated you can
certainly fault all those points however
I think from in a realistic point of
view it is very difficult for a
politician to just go against all the
forces that are now arrayed inside the
United States to keep this ball rolling
to keep the military-industrial complex
funded to to not run afoul of this very
powerful right wing media apparatus now
I think it's sort of a fool's errand for
someone like Obama to try to finesse
that they're going to attack him
whatever
does they might attack him more and more
aggressively if he were to try to end
the war in Afghanistan say they would
call him a traitor they would call him
you know pro-muslim you know communist
trevor they would think of they would
call him that and it would and he
probably would have a lot of political
trouble for doing it that doesn't mean
he shouldn't do it I'm not saying that
but he would say he certainly was
looking at that problem on the other
side the American people are part of the
problem to the progressive community has
never rallied in the way it could ever
should have to build a movement build
institutions media institutions think
tanks etcetera to challenge with the
right has built the right is this
enormous vertically integrated apparatus
that runs from book publishing magazines
newspapers radio television the internet
they are they funded with billions of
dollars on the other hand the
progressives just don't really want to
do that much I mean there are people to
do things as best they can but there's
been no real big investment in this so
you've got a politicians who have to
somehow they think they have to navigate
these very unfavorable waters and so
they try to finesse they try to make
deals and they try to do what they have
to do survive in their view and that has
other consequences it demoralizes the
the people that elected them people say
well why do we vote for you if you can
do the same thing they the Republicans
did so it so in effect it puts these
politicians like Obama in kind of a
no-win situation they can try to be
responsible they can try to bail out the
banks because all the crazy Reagan Bush
policies of in Clinton policies to in
terms of be regulating the banks and be
regulating industry that those things
are coming home to roost now and all the
tax cuts that have been passed in these
years or have prayed this huge federal
deficit so Obama has he men wants to be
responsible he's trying to make deals
and they compromises and while I think
he's made some very bad choices I also
think we all have to take responsibility
as
this country for not making it more
possible for politicians to do the right
thing it's easy to condemn them and
criticize them it's much harder to
create the environment where they feel
safer in doing the right thing
same with pot same with journalists I
must say you haven't been in the
mainstream media for a lot of years the
idea of telling the truth and doing
those stories that people say they want
and then getting your brains beaten in
for it maybe losing your job or losing
your status within your profession is a
very high price to pay and you don't get
a sense that's really much there's not
much out there for you if you do it I
mean someone like a Ray Bonner has to go
find freelance work after the news of
New York Times Gary Webb after you did
that heroic stuff he did unconscious
drug trafficking in 96 he's humiliated
he loses his job loses his family and
ultimately facing eviction from his the
place he was living he kills himself I
mean so you have real consequences for
real people that could be different and
so I think it's oh I marry point is I
think well yes we ought to criticize
politicians for making choices that are
either improper or stupid we also take
responsibility as citizens for leaving
them sometimes with a sense that that's
the best they have those are the best
options they see for themselves talking
about one of the major things that
Obama's done in terms of going into
Afghanistan we have card by we have
ourselves aligned with people like
Rashid Dostum who I don't know the
American people know very much about the
Afghan massacre but could you just talk
a little bit about Afghanistan what were
boy isn't doing that well Afghanistan is
one of the great messes of Afghanistan's
one of the great messes of modern US
policies and it goes back to the same
timeframe we talked about obviously the
Soviets invaded Afghanistan or went into
Afghanistan to support of a communist
government in in 79 and 80 a Carter
tried to react to that his national
security adviser Brzezinski was pretty
much a cold warrior and and and started
the ball toward the United
stays countering that realistically
however as much as one might find the
communist government repulsive in many
ways it was it actually tried to do many
good things especially for women it
tried to bring modern reforms to the
country it had wind of schooling for
women women could dress as they wished
under the communist government the
United States effectively decided that
in this effort to this Cold War I would
say even though the Cold War was
effectively over by then and was over in
the 70s by going to be released those
CIA reports the that by the time you get
to this period there was a desire and
the Reagan people to ratchet up the Cold
War again so a whole bunch of decisions
remained there were that really had
terrible consequences the Reagan
administration wanted to teach the
Soviets a lesson so they they started
playing to the Islamic extremism at CIA
they were publishing Quran they were
being distributed and not just for
Afghanistan anyway they were using the
same basic strategy in the southern
Soviet Union with it with the so called
stand countries now on to sort of
ratchet up the this Islamic fervor as a
way to undermine the Soviets so much of
this was sort of stirred up by the
United States for this sort of this
rather odd idea of somehow taking back
Afghanistan a country that really didn't
have much for teaching value to us or
anybody particularly so so you had so
then that required also dealing with the
Pakistanis in Pakistani intelligence the
ISI these are very unsavory people too
and they were they were building an
atomic bomb secretly so as part of the
deal what Reagan did was he agreed to
essentially turn a blind eye to the
Pakistani nuclear program in exchange
for them providing weapons to these
Islamic extremists who the United States
was supporting in Afghanistan and
they're also of course other excellent
extremists from other countries that
rally to that cause including Osama bin
Laden and some of the people that later
became al-qaeda so you had the United
States helping to fund some of these
very extreme characters very violent
characters people that engage in
terrorism
that was what Reagan thought was a good
idea he also agreed to protect the
Pakistani nuclear program so they could
develop a nuclear bomb that's what they
wanted so we ended up with a situation
that yes the Soviets were ultimately
driven out of Afghanistan in 1989 but
what was also left in play were all
these Warlord's that you talked about
and the in these religious extremists
being supported by the Islamic
government of Pakistan which was getting
closer and closer to a nuclear bomb now
the so all this may sound like crazy but
that's what the US policy was anyway so
you get they so at the end of the day
you get the actually an 88 President
Gorbachev of the Soviet Union has
another plan he wants us to give the
Americans he says listen we'll pull out
and then we have our we have the deal
the communist government of Najibullah
in plays and we'll have a coalition with
some of the better people from your side
some of the less extreme Islamists and
global coalition government and bring
peace to Afghanistan as best we can the
United States rejected that I was at I
was in Newsweek at the time and I was
covering this stuff and I thought I was
talking to one CIA guy who was involved
in this program I said why don't you
well we just take the deal I mean the
Russians have left just you know why not
just have a settle this thing and the
guy said in disgust toward me said we
want to see Najibullah strung up by a
light pole and I compared a why Nagi
bullet was that important frankly he was
just this guy that was running
Afghanistan at the time now the thinking
was that the US would be able to
continue the support through the CIA for
these rebels
Najibullah would be swept from power and
the us back guys would take power at say
1990 the trouble was that Nagi bulla was
sort of made of sterner stuff and so he
was able to thwart the takeover so the
war continues and contrary to Charlie
Wilson's War and the myths that have
been creative about that the u.s. does
not just abandoned the the Mujahideen
immediately after the
Soviets not leave the u.s. continues to
support them through the CIA for another
two or three years until the Soviet
Union actually just ends which is a 1991
and then basically both now Russia and
the US step back but the working but the
war doesn't end either eventually
another more moderate Islamic group
takes over Najibullah remains ally
remains in Kabul it this thing continues
and finally the Pakistanis organize a
group of students Afghan refugees and
train them in Islamic theories and
thought and this group is called the
Taliban and the and then the ISI and
Pakistan send them into Afghanistan with
it with Pakistani support with the
promise that they're going to bring
order to the country and they drive out
the more moderate Islamic group that was
in Kabul they take over
Najibullah tries to escape he tries to
run to the UN compound they catch him
they torture him they castrate him and
they string him up by a light pole
ironically just what the CIA guy was
envisioning years earlier but by now
it's 1996 and this country's our wreck
at this point the all the middle class
essentially been destroyed
all the people that could provide is
some kind of reasonable government gone
and and because there was this this this
is what the Taliban actually provide it
was not just security they proved they
brought the they want to bring the
country back to the seventh century AD
so you had this very backward group that
that put women especially under under
this horrible control and that was
really all essentially brought to you by
the US government policies these were
misguided policies driven by other
agendas Afghanistan was essentially a
sideshow and at the end of the Cold War
but it was one that had horrible
consequences that are playing out to
this day they obviously have the one
being that the these Islamic extremists
around bin-laden coalesce into al-qaeda
and then began attacking us targets in
Africa and elsewhere trying to drive
United States out of the region and that
ultimately leads to the 9/11 attacks so
you have this you have this
extraordinary case of of policies that
were short-sighted having long term
horrible consequences can you say
anything about the current government
well the Karzai government which was put
in power by the United States after
after the Bush administration invaded
Afghanistan and late 2001
is like so many of these places many of
these governments it was a compliant
leader who had very corrupt connections
who was making deals with the Warlord's
with with heroin being a major source of
money for all sides in this conflict
Karzai his brother's been implicated in
the drug trade I don't personally know
all the details have not investigated
that myself but it has been widely
reported that people high up in the
Karzai government are involved in the
drug trade and because of their the need
for them much like with the Contras back
in the 1980s when Reagan felt he needed
the Contras in his Nicaragua operation
the the Karzai government has a special
standing the United States have needs
that government to somehow succeed or at
least not be replaced or overthrown for
the policies to work the trouble is
you've got a very corrupt government
that the United States is in bed with
and that's what when you look at what
ambassador Eikenberry recently cabled to
President Obama saying this policy is
not going to work in terms of trying to
expand the war because the Karzai
government is not a responsible partner
and and and Eikenberry is correct you
know whether or not somehow it can be
transformed into one is I guess an open
question but over the past eight years
or so it certainly has shown itself to
be incompetent and in corrupt
in terms of the American government we
need we see the change constantly we're
always voting for new senators house
representatives the new president but
the policies of country continue to
depend without without regard it seems
almost to lose in Congress we still keep
going into these words occupations
global domination but it appears to be
control of resources instead of power
that you see that might be ongoing I
mean I just what I'm suggesting here is
that the CIA keeps going on we don't
vote for them the corporation's keep
going on we all vote for them but the
people that we do go for seem to be
rather than effective and stuffing the
way things are going so is there some
sort of power behind what we are seeing
as American citizens well I think it's
not necessarily that hidden we have the
order can the right-wing and the
Conservatives have very organized
brilliantly they have spent tens of
billions of dollars on on building an
infrastructure to support what the many
of the corporations want to do whether
it's deregulation so there they support
libertarian causes whether it's military
industrial complex you have these think
tanks like heritage or AEI that get well
funded there's all this effort to to
control the message and control the
so-called war of ideas and and the right
has made that a huge investment and and
and then because of that a lot of
policies have been implemented Reagan
used to say that the real problem was
government and in other words I would
argue that the only way to check
corporate power in America is to have a
democratized and energized federal
government that can do it which requires
a lot of support from the public and
sense of being democratized if if that's
off the table
that means corporations basically
dictate everything in our lives and we
are left to negotiate every little
intimate detail whether it's your health
insurance why don't you sort of
negotiate with your health insurance
provider why don't you go she ate it
with your cable television provider
you you have to or your employer and
unions have been broken and there was
another big thing Reagan worked on in
the early part of his presidency so all
of us are sort of left atomized alone
and this is what even the Tea Partiers
kind of the sort of the ridiculous
aspect of them is that here these are
sort of average people let's say who
probably don't have health care very
good health care probably they're being
screwed on the job and their and their
anger is directed against the government
not against the corporations not against
the people that are actually making
their lives more miserable so so that's
there's been this delusion that has has
really come to dominate the Americans
political system and information has
been the key from the beginning the
ability to develop it honestly and with
rigor and get it to the American people
so they can be informed and therefore
empowered that's what the neo-cons and
that's what the right one after the
influence of information and so with
from the point of the time of the
American people being very energized and
active in the late 60s and early 70s
with the media you know doing much
better job in terms of telling that
getting out the secrets and telling the
public what was going on today is like
it's like really night and day and and
that's why I think the I'm not sure
where you start to try to solve the
problem because it's now so deep you
know it's so systemic but I would argue
that there has to be a major effort made
in media and the ability to get facts to
the American people and in a consistent
way not just periodically not just
piratical II but consistently and and
somehow get back to that period when the
American people are energized and
informed and active and that I think
might allow a well-meaning politician
let's assume for a second that President
Obama is such a person that would give
them a better chance to do the right
thing and succeed rather than if they do
the right thing getting crushed or
making a deal making something
compromise that leads them into a
direction that everyone says
why do we vote for the guy and I think
that's the problem and if there's an
answer I think what has to begin by
getting back to the ability to tell the
truth
conversion is that's your alpha tell us
about insertion is and your well well
basically a quick story of the
consortium news I come out of the
Associated Press Newsweek and done work
with PBS Frontline and it by the
mid-1990s it was very clear to me that
there was really no way to work within
the mainstream media it can any
consistent way to get the truth out in
on these difficult issues the system had
become rigged and it wasn't just the
right-wing press anymore it was the New
York Times The Washington Post they had
basically surrendered their commitment
to get anything out that the government
really didn't want they might deal with
personal indiscretions but on the big
stories they were AWOL so and this goes
to when I discovered those documents in
the ladies room they have the October
Surprise documents and I put them
together
plus it was really exciting I got I
wrote up a report about it and tried to
sort of get some places like the New
Yorker you know more liberal kinds of
publications to run it no one was
interested this hasn't been 90s no one
thought that who cared about that stuff
but had been hadn't have been
discredited it was that kind of attitude
so I was sitting there kind of
frustrated in my in my young my oldest
son Sam had just finished college and he
said well dad said of complaining you
know there's this thing called the
Internet I said really and he said big
things called you could set up from call
a website and so so well okay let's see
we can do it and back then there were no
templates for websites Sam who wasn't
really experiencing this I'd like to
figure out how to build a website so he
mastered that and we and our first
series was an eight part series about
these documents ease and but we put some
of them up there on the field on the
internet summer top secret summer secret
and summer just classified but they tell
this remarkable tale and so I thought
maybe we could try this and I also
thought it was a way to convince people
that you could do serious journalism and
not cost an arm to leg and one of the
complaints I hear from from wealthy
liberals was
all the meetings too expensive we can't
possibly do that we don't want to waste
our money on that so I thought maybe
this was a way to convince people that
you could do good stuff and it wouldn't
cost an arm and a leg you could put more
of the money into the actual reporting
and writing and less into the production
side that turned out to be true except I
never was able to convince the people
with money that this was worth
supporting in any meaningful way so we
struggled while long we kept doing
really good stuff by 2000 or so I'd run
out of money and and just as the
campaign was going on between starting
with clean gore and bush I made a last
pitch to a wealthy funder I said you
know this is really important too
because gore is words of being
misrepresented it's not just by the
Wright and New York Times in the
Washington Post are making a quotes for
him that this isn't you know this is
going to be devastating and the guy said
oh no there's no way Bush will become
president we don't worry about that
we'll just we're spent our money he said
on setting up groups of pressure
President Gore and at that point I kind
of threw my hands up I was at often was
a job I had open at Bloomberg News which
would pay me six figures and I needed
the money so I kind of put the website
on out of a part-time basis we kept it
alive I'd get up at 4:00 in the morning
or work on weekends to sort of get some
stories up but we didn't do nearly as
much as we should have in the 2000
election year and I was pretty busy I
was handling securities regulation
editing for Bloomberg which was at that
time because of the the.com bust was a
very busy beat anyway so um so for four
years I just sort of continued doing the
best we could and I was working and and
then in 2004 I was approached by some
liberals and said no people now get what
you're saying they could get it these
are folks were involved in setting up
air America and they said to be money
available for this I wasn't sure I
believed them but I didn't but they
seemed sincere and I felt I needed to
get this material together that I'd had
on bushes in a different way so I quit
Bloomberg and left my six-figure job and
started work on secrecy and privilege
which was my previous book to the last
one
and which laid out a lot of what the
Bush family how they really had risen to
power and we got that book out you know
we had to do it sort of through our own
publishing arm and we revived consortium
news and we begin to expand it we
obviously didn't have much effect in the
2004 election at least you know Bush got
re-elected and the but we can we became
a voice for serious reporting on these
topics like a rack like some of the
human rights violations that were gone
to torture and we began to assemble more
and more good people and people like Ray
McGovern former CIA people who had
experienced similar things what I'd
experienced as a journalist they'd
experienced inside the CIA's analytical
division the same pressure to falsify
information or not tell the truth and a
meaningful life so we continued the
website and we've made it we've got it
through now 15 years we were the first
different of the oldest investigative
news magazine on the internet and we've
continued to try to tell the stories as
best we can we deal with serious
journalism we don't go off on wild
tangents we insist on facts and evidence
and we try to present it in ways that
are very interesting to the American
people so we're doing our part not as
much as we'd like to do but we're doing
our part thank you thank you robert
Parry ladies and gentlemen thank you
journey well Phoebe and please check out
conversion means I think you'll be
pleasantly surprised thank you
[Music]
you